The Arabic word Tajweed linguistically means “proficiency” or “doing something well.” It comes from the same root letters as the word Jayyid, which means “good.” The term refers to how each letter in the Qur’an should be accorded its rights. However, this is because of its characteristics. But, the rules govern what each letter should do in various situations. Therefore, we give the letters their rights by observing the essential characteristics of each letter. Hence, we give them their due by observing each letter’s characteristics sometimes and not at other times.

The Qur’an was revealed with Tajweed rules applied to it. In other words, when the angel Jibreel (Gabriel), may Allah exalt his mention, recited the words of Allah to the Prophet Muhammad. So it is obligatory upon us to observe those rules to recite it in the way it was revealed.

At the time of the Prophet, there was no need for people to study Tajweed because they talked with what is now known as Tajweed, so it was natural for them. It was important for the scholars to record Quran recitation rules as the Arabs and non-Arabs mixed and Islam spread. Nowadays, even Arabs must study Tajweed since the standard Arabic that Arabs speak is so different from the classical Arabic used in the Qur’an.

Importance Of Tajweed And Quran In Islam
The Holy Qur’an is the true name of Allah that He revealed as an infallible source of legislation for humanity to live an organized life. But, it contains regulations and recommendations about all aspects of life and references to the Hereafter. Because of its importance, the Qur’an should be correctly recited, written, and recited so that there are no misunderstandings.

Listening to the Qur’an being recited correctly is enough to soften even the hardest of hearts. Muslims and non-Muslims alike find it deeply moving, regardless of what they are hearing. Every Muslim has to recite the Qur’an in prayers. Still, many of us do not realize that reciting the Qur’an correctly while following the rules of recitation is not an advanced science for expert reciters alone. Rather it is an obligation upon every one of us whenever we recite the Qur’an.

Purpose Of Tajweed In Quran
The Qur’an is the word of Allah, and every syllable is from Allah. But, its recitation must be taken very seriously. The purpose of Tajweed is to enable the receiver to recite the Qur’an proficiently. In addition to this, we observe the correct pronunciation of every letter with the rules and characteristics that apply to it without exaggeration or deficiency. It is possible to recite the Qur’an in the manner of the Prophet, who received it from Jibreel, who received it from Almighty Allah in classical Arabic.

Rules For Better Tajweed Learning
Each Arabic letter has a Makhraj (an exit or junction point from which it originates) and Sifaat (attributes or characteristics). But, knowing the Makhraj and Sifaat of each letter is an important part of Tajweed. Sometimes two letters have very similar exits, which makes mixing them up easy. A person may change the meaning of words in the Quran recitation if he does not know the attributes of each letter. Thus, Tajweed rules in recitation prevent the reciter from making mistakes.

